modules/distr-tracing-tempo-object-storage-setup-gcp-sts-install.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
//* observability/distr_tracing/distr-tracing-tempo-installing.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="setting-up-google-cloud-storage-with-security-token-service_{context}"]
= Setting up the Google Cloud storage with the Security Token Service

You can set up the Google Cloud Storage (GCS) with the Security Token Service (STS) by using the Google Cloud CLI.

:FeatureName: Using the {TempoShortName} with the GCS and STS
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

.Prerequisites

* You have installed the latest version of the Google Cloud CLI.

.Procedure

. Create a GCS bucket on the Google Cloud Platform (GCP).

. Create or reuse a service account with Google's Identity and Access Management (IAM):
+
[source,bash]
----
SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL=$(gcloud iam service-accounts create <iam_service_account_name> \ # <1>
    --display-name="Tempo Account" \
    --project <project_id>  \ # <2>
    --format='value(email)' \ 
    --quiet)
----
<1> The name of the service account on the GCP.
<2> The project ID of the service account on the GCP.

. Bind the required GCP roles to the created service account at the project level. You can do this by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding <project_id> \
    --member "serviceAccount:$SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL" \
    --role "roles/storage.objectAdmin"
----

. Retrieve the `POOL_ID` value of the Google Cloud Workload Identity Pool that is associated with the cluster. How you can retrieve this value depends on your environment, so the following command is only an example:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ OIDC_ISSUER=$(oc get authentication.config cluster -o jsonpath='{.spec.serviceAccountIssuer}') \
&&
  POOL_ID=$(echo "$OIDC_ISSUER" | awk -F'/' '{print $NF}' | sed 's/-oidc$//')
----

.  Add the IAM policy bindings. You can do this by running the following commands:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud iam service-accounts add-iam-policy-binding "$SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL" \ # <1>
  --role="roles/iam.workloadIdentityUser" \
  --member="principal://iam.googleapis.com/projects/<project_number>/locations/global/workloadIdentityPools/<pool_id>/subject/system:serviceaccount:<tempo_namespace>:tempo-<tempo_name>" \
  --project=<project_id> \
  --quiet \
&&
  gcloud iam service-accounts add-iam-policy-binding "$SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL" \
  --role="roles/iam.workloadIdentityUser" \
  --member="principal://iam.googleapis.com/projects/<project_number>/locations/global/workloadIdentityPools/<pool_id>/subject/system:serviceaccount:<tempo_namespace>:tempo-<tempo_name>-query-frontend" \
  --project=<project_id> \
  --quiet
&&
  gcloud storage buckets add-iam-policy-binding "gs://$BUCKET_NAME" \
  --role="roles/storage.admin" \
  --member="serviceAccount:$SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL" \
  --condition=None
----
<1> The `$SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL` is the output of the command in step 2.

. Create a credential file for the `key.json` key of the storage secret for use by the `TempoStack` custom resource. You can do this by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud iam workload-identity-pools create-cred-config \
    "projects/<project_number>/locations/global/workloadIdentityPools/<pool_id>/providers/<provider_id>" \
    --service-account="$SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL" \
    --credential-source-file=/var/run/secrets/storage/serviceaccount/token \ # <1>
    --credential-source-type=text \
    --output-file=<output_file_path> # <2>
----
<1> The `credential-source-file` parameter must always point to the `/var/run/secrets/storage/serviceaccount/token` path because the Operator mounts the token from this path.
<2> The path for saving the output file.

. Get the correct audience by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud iam workload-identity-pools providers describe "$PROVIDER_NAME" --format='value(oidc.allowedAudiences[0])'
----

. Create a storage secret for the {TempoShortName} by running the following command.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n <tempo_namespace> create secret generic gcs-secret \
  --from-literal=bucketname="<bucket_name>" \ # <1>
  --from-literal=audience="<audience>" \      # <2>
  --from-file=key.json=<output_file_path>    # <3>
----
<1> The bucket name of the Google Cloud Storage.
<2> The audience that you got in the previous step.
<3> The credential file that you created in step 6.

. When the object storage secret is created, update the relevant custom resource of the {TempoShortName} instance as follows:
+
.Example `TempoStack` custom resource
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: tempo.grafana.com/v1alpha1
kind: TempoStack
metadata:
  name: <name>
  namespace: <namespace>
spec:
# ...
  storage:
    secret: # <1>
      name: <secret_name>
      type: gcs
# ...
----
<1> The secret that you created in the previous step.
+
.Example `TempoMonolithic` custom resource
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: tempo.grafana.com/v1alpha1
kind: TempoMonolithic
metadata:
  name: <name>
  namespace: <namespace>
spec:
# ...
  storage:
    traces:
      backend: gcs
      gcs:
        secret: <secret_name> # <1>
# ...
----
<1> The secret that you created in the previous step.

Commit message:

demo google rebrand with info preserved

modules/distr-tracing-tempo-object-storage-setup-gcp-sts-install.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
//* observability/distr_tracing/distr-tracing-tempo-installing.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="setting-up-google-cloud-storage-with-security-token-service_{context}"]
= Setting up the Google Cloud storage with the Security Token Service

You can set up the Google Cloud Storage (GCS) with the Security Token Service (STS) by using the Google Cloud CLI.

:FeatureName: Using the {TempoShortName} with the GCS and STS
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

.Prerequisites

* You have installed the latest version of the Google Cloud CLI.

.Procedure

. Create a GCS bucket on the {gcp-first}.

. Create or reuse a service account with Google's Identity and Access Management (IAM):
+
[source,bash]
----
SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL=$(gcloud iam service-accounts create <iam_service_account_name> \ # <1>
    --display-name="Tempo Account" \
    --project <project_id>  \ # <2>
    --format='value(email)' \
    --quiet)
----
<1> The name of the service account on the {gcp-short}.
<2> The project ID of the service account on the {gcp-short}.

. Bind the required {gcp-short} roles to the created service account at the project level. You can do this by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding <project_id> \
    --member "serviceAccount:$SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL" \
    --role "roles/storage.objectAdmin"
----

. Retrieve the `POOL_ID` value of the Google Cloud Workload Identity Pool that is associated with the cluster. How you can retrieve this value depends on your environment, so the following command is only an example:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ OIDC_ISSUER=$(oc get authentication.config cluster -o jsonpath='{.spec.serviceAccountIssuer}') \
&&
  POOL_ID=$(echo "$OIDC_ISSUER" | awk -F'/' '{print $NF}' | sed 's/-oidc$//')
----

.  Add the IAM policy bindings. You can do this by running the following commands:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud iam service-accounts add-iam-policy-binding "$SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL" \ # <1>
  --role="roles/iam.workloadIdentityUser" \
  --member="principal://iam.googleapis.com/projects/<project_number>/locations/global/workloadIdentityPools/<pool_id>/subject/system:serviceaccount:<tempo_namespace>:tempo-<tempo_name>" \
  --project=<project_id> \
  --quiet \
&&
  gcloud iam service-accounts add-iam-policy-binding "$SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL" \
  --role="roles/iam.workloadIdentityUser" \
  --member="principal://iam.googleapis.com/projects/<project_number>/locations/global/workloadIdentityPools/<pool_id>/subject/system:serviceaccount:<tempo_namespace>:tempo-<tempo_name>-query-frontend" \
  --project=<project_id> \
  --quiet
&&
  gcloud storage buckets add-iam-policy-binding "gs://$BUCKET_NAME" \
  --role="roles/storage.admin" \
  --member="serviceAccount:$SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL" \
  --condition=None
----
<1> The `$SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL` is the output of the command in step 2.

. Create a credential file for the `key.json` key of the storage secret for use by the `TempoStack` custom resource. You can do this by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud iam workload-identity-pools create-cred-config \
    "projects/<project_number>/locations/global/workloadIdentityPools/<pool_id>/providers/<provider_id>" \
    --service-account="$SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL" \
    --credential-source-file=/var/run/secrets/storage/serviceaccount/token \ # <1>
    --credential-source-type=text \
    --output-file=<output_file_path> # <2>
----
<1> The `credential-source-file` parameter must always point to the `/var/run/secrets/storage/serviceaccount/token` path because the Operator mounts the token from this path.
<2> The path for saving the output file.

. Get the correct audience by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud iam workload-identity-pools providers describe "$PROVIDER_NAME" --format='value(oidc.allowedAudiences[0])'
----

. Create a storage secret for the {TempoShortName} by running the following command.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n <tempo_namespace> create secret generic gcs-secret \
  --from-literal=bucketname="<bucket_name>" \ # <1>
  --from-literal=audience="<audience>" \      # <2>
  --from-file=key.json=<output_file_path>    # <3>
----
<1> The bucket name of the Google Cloud Storage.
<2> The audience that you got in the previous step.
<3> The credential file that you created in step 6.

. When the object storage secret is created, update the relevant custom resource of the {TempoShortName} instance as follows:
+
.Example `TempoStack` custom resource
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: tempo.grafana.com/v1alpha1
kind: TempoStack
metadata:
  name: <name>
  namespace: <namespace>
spec:
# ...
  storage:
    secret: # <1>
      name: <secret_name>
      type: gcs
# ...
----
<1> The secret that you created in the previous step.
+
.Example `TempoMonolithic` custom resource
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: tempo.grafana.com/v1alpha1
kind: TempoMonolithic
metadata:
  name: <name>
  namespace: <namespace>
spec:
# ...
  storage:
    traces:
      backend: gcs
      gcs:
        secret: <secret_name> # <1>
# ...
----
<1> The secret that you created in the previous step.
