modules/installation-creating-gcp-private-dns.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-user-infra.adoc
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc"]
:shared-vpc:
endif::[]

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="installation-creating-gcp-private-dns_{context}"]
= Creating a private DNS zone in GCP

You must configure a private DNS zone in Google Cloud Platform (GCP) for your
{product-title} cluster to use. One way to create this component is
to modify the provided Deployment Manager template.

[NOTE]
====
If you do not use the provided Deployment Manager template to create your GCP
infrastructure, you must review the provided information and manually create
the infrastructure. If your cluster does not initialize correctly, you might
have to contact Red Hat support with your installation logs.
====

.Prerequisites

* Ensure you defined the variables in the _Exporting common variables_ and _Creating load balancers in GCP_ sections.

.Procedure

. Copy the template from the *Deployment Manager template for the private DNS*
section of this topic and save it as `02_dns.py` on your computer. This
template describes the private DNS objects that your cluster
requires.

. Create a `02_dns.yaml` resource definition file:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat <<EOF >02_dns.yaml
imports:
- path: 02_dns.py

resources:
- name: cluster-dns
  type: 02_dns.py
  properties:
    infra_id: '${INFRA_ID}' <1>
    cluster_domain: '${CLUSTER_NAME}.${BASE_DOMAIN}' <2>
    cluster_network: '${CLUSTER_NETWORK}' <3>
EOF
----
<1> `infra_id` is the `INFRA_ID` infrastructure name from the extraction step.
<2> `cluster_domain` is the domain for the cluster, for example `openshift.example.com`.
<3> `cluster_network` is the `selfLink` URL to the cluster network.

. Create the deployment by using the `gcloud` CLI:
+
ifdef::shared-vpc[]
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud deployment-manager deployments create ${INFRA_ID}-dns --config 02_dns.yaml --project ${HOST_PROJECT} --account ${HOST_PROJECT_ACCOUNT}
----
endif::shared-vpc[]
ifndef::shared-vpc[]
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud deployment-manager deployments create ${INFRA_ID}-dns --config 02_dns.yaml
----
endif::shared-vpc[]

. The templates do not create DNS entries due to limitations of Deployment
Manager, so you must create them manually:

.. Add the internal DNS entries:
+
ifdef::shared-vpc[]
[source,terminal]
----
$ if [ -f transaction.yaml ]; then rm transaction.yaml; fi
$ gcloud dns record-sets transaction start --zone ${INFRA_ID}-private-zone --project ${HOST_PROJECT} --account ${HOST_PROJECT_ACCOUNT}
$ gcloud dns record-sets transaction add ${CLUSTER_IP} --name api.${CLUSTER_NAME}.${BASE_DOMAIN}. --ttl 60 --type A --zone ${INFRA_ID}-private-zone --project ${HOST_PROJECT} --account ${HOST_PROJECT_ACCOUNT}
$ gcloud dns record-sets transaction add ${CLUSTER_IP} --name api-int.${CLUSTER_NAME}.${BASE_DOMAIN}. --ttl 60 --type A --zone ${INFRA_ID}-private-zone --project ${HOST_PROJECT} --account ${HOST_PROJECT_ACCOUNT}
$ gcloud dns record-sets transaction execute --zone ${INFRA_ID}-private-zone --project ${HOST_PROJECT} --account ${HOST_PROJECT_ACCOUNT}
----
endif::shared-vpc[]
ifndef::shared-vpc[]
[source,terminal]
----
$ if [ -f transaction.yaml ]; then rm transaction.yaml; fi
$ gcloud dns record-sets transaction start --zone ${INFRA_ID}-private-zone
$ gcloud dns record-sets transaction add ${CLUSTER_IP} --name api.${CLUSTER_NAME}.${BASE_DOMAIN}. --ttl 60 --type A --zone ${INFRA_ID}-private-zone
$ gcloud dns record-sets transaction add ${CLUSTER_IP} --name api-int.${CLUSTER_NAME}.${BASE_DOMAIN}. --ttl 60 --type A --zone ${INFRA_ID}-private-zone
$ gcloud dns record-sets transaction execute --zone ${INFRA_ID}-private-zone
----
endif::shared-vpc[]

.. For an external cluster, also add the external DNS entries:
+
ifdef::shared-vpc[]
[source,terminal]
----
$ if [ -f transaction.yaml ]; then rm transaction.yaml; fi
$ gcloud --account=${HOST_PROJECT_ACCOUNT} --project=${HOST_PROJECT} dns record-sets transaction start --zone ${BASE_DOMAIN_ZONE_NAME}
$ gcloud --account=${HOST_PROJECT_ACCOUNT} --project=${HOST_PROJECT} dns record-sets transaction add ${CLUSTER_PUBLIC_IP} --name api.${CLUSTER_NAME}.${BASE_DOMAIN}. --ttl 60 --type A --zone ${BASE_DOMAIN_ZONE_NAME}
$ gcloud --account=${HOST_PROJECT_ACCOUNT} --project=${HOST_PROJECT} dns record-sets transaction execute --zone ${BASE_DOMAIN_ZONE_NAME}
----
endif::shared-vpc[]
ifndef::shared-vpc[]
[source,terminal]
----
$ if [ -f transaction.yaml ]; then rm transaction.yaml; fi
$ gcloud dns record-sets transaction start --zone ${BASE_DOMAIN_ZONE_NAME}
$ gcloud dns record-sets transaction add ${CLUSTER_PUBLIC_IP} --name api.${CLUSTER_NAME}.${BASE_DOMAIN}. --ttl 60 --type A --zone ${BASE_DOMAIN_ZONE_NAME}
$ gcloud dns record-sets transaction execute --zone ${BASE_DOMAIN_ZONE_NAME}
----
endif::shared-vpc[]

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc"]
:!shared-vpc:
endif::[]

Commit message:

demo google rebrand with info preserved

modules/installation-creating-gcp-private-dns.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-user-infra.adoc
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc"]
:shared-vpc:
endif::[]

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="installation-creating-gcp-private-dns_{context}"]
= Creating a private DNS zone in {gcp-short}

You must configure a private DNS zone in {gcp-first} for your
{product-title} cluster to use. One way to create this component is
to modify the provided Deployment Manager template.

[NOTE]
====
If you do not use the provided Deployment Manager template to create your {gcp-short}
infrastructure, you must review the provided information and manually create
the infrastructure. If your cluster does not initialize correctly, you might
have to contact Red Hat support with your installation logs.
====

.Prerequisites

* Ensure you defined the variables in the _Exporting common variables_ and _Creating load balancers in GCP_ sections.

.Procedure

. Copy the template from the *Deployment Manager template for the private DNS*
section of this topic and save it as `02_dns.py` on your computer. This
template describes the private DNS objects that your cluster
requires.

. Create a `02_dns.yaml` resource definition file:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat <<EOF >02_dns.yaml
imports:
- path: 02_dns.py

resources:
- name: cluster-dns
  type: 02_dns.py
  properties:
    infra_id: '${INFRA_ID}' <1>
    cluster_domain: '${CLUSTER_NAME}.${BASE_DOMAIN}' <2>
    cluster_network: '${CLUSTER_NETWORK}' <3>
EOF
----
<1> `infra_id` is the `INFRA_ID` infrastructure name from the extraction step.
<2> `cluster_domain` is the domain for the cluster, for example `openshift.example.com`.
<3> `cluster_network` is the `selfLink` URL to the cluster network.

. Create the deployment by using the `gcloud` CLI:
+
ifdef::shared-vpc[]
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud deployment-manager deployments create ${INFRA_ID}-dns --config 02_dns.yaml --project ${HOST_PROJECT} --account ${HOST_PROJECT_ACCOUNT}
----
endif::shared-vpc[]
ifndef::shared-vpc[]
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud deployment-manager deployments create ${INFRA_ID}-dns --config 02_dns.yaml
----
endif::shared-vpc[]

. The templates do not create DNS entries due to limitations of Deployment
Manager, so you must create them manually:

.. Add the internal DNS entries:
+
ifdef::shared-vpc[]
[source,terminal]
----
$ if [ -f transaction.yaml ]; then rm transaction.yaml; fi
$ gcloud dns record-sets transaction start --zone ${INFRA_ID}-private-zone --project ${HOST_PROJECT} --account ${HOST_PROJECT_ACCOUNT}
$ gcloud dns record-sets transaction add ${CLUSTER_IP} --name api.${CLUSTER_NAME}.${BASE_DOMAIN}. --ttl 60 --type A --zone ${INFRA_ID}-private-zone --project ${HOST_PROJECT} --account ${HOST_PROJECT_ACCOUNT}
$ gcloud dns record-sets transaction add ${CLUSTER_IP} --name api-int.${CLUSTER_NAME}.${BASE_DOMAIN}. --ttl 60 --type A --zone ${INFRA_ID}-private-zone --project ${HOST_PROJECT} --account ${HOST_PROJECT_ACCOUNT}
$ gcloud dns record-sets transaction execute --zone ${INFRA_ID}-private-zone --project ${HOST_PROJECT} --account ${HOST_PROJECT_ACCOUNT}
----
endif::shared-vpc[]
ifndef::shared-vpc[]
[source,terminal]
----
$ if [ -f transaction.yaml ]; then rm transaction.yaml; fi
$ gcloud dns record-sets transaction start --zone ${INFRA_ID}-private-zone
$ gcloud dns record-sets transaction add ${CLUSTER_IP} --name api.${CLUSTER_NAME}.${BASE_DOMAIN}. --ttl 60 --type A --zone ${INFRA_ID}-private-zone
$ gcloud dns record-sets transaction add ${CLUSTER_IP} --name api-int.${CLUSTER_NAME}.${BASE_DOMAIN}. --ttl 60 --type A --zone ${INFRA_ID}-private-zone
$ gcloud dns record-sets transaction execute --zone ${INFRA_ID}-private-zone
----
endif::shared-vpc[]

.. For an external cluster, also add the external DNS entries:
+
ifdef::shared-vpc[]
[source,terminal]
----
$ if [ -f transaction.yaml ]; then rm transaction.yaml; fi
$ gcloud --account=${HOST_PROJECT_ACCOUNT} --project=${HOST_PROJECT} dns record-sets transaction start --zone ${BASE_DOMAIN_ZONE_NAME}
$ gcloud --account=${HOST_PROJECT_ACCOUNT} --project=${HOST_PROJECT} dns record-sets transaction add ${CLUSTER_PUBLIC_IP} --name api.${CLUSTER_NAME}.${BASE_DOMAIN}. --ttl 60 --type A --zone ${BASE_DOMAIN_ZONE_NAME}
$ gcloud --account=${HOST_PROJECT_ACCOUNT} --project=${HOST_PROJECT} dns record-sets transaction execute --zone ${BASE_DOMAIN_ZONE_NAME}
----
endif::shared-vpc[]
ifndef::shared-vpc[]
[source,terminal]
----
$ if [ -f transaction.yaml ]; then rm transaction.yaml; fi
$ gcloud dns record-sets transaction start --zone ${BASE_DOMAIN_ZONE_NAME}
$ gcloud dns record-sets transaction add ${CLUSTER_PUBLIC_IP} --name api.${CLUSTER_NAME}.${BASE_DOMAIN}. --ttl 60 --type A --zone ${BASE_DOMAIN_ZONE_NAME}
$ gcloud dns record-sets transaction execute --zone ${BASE_DOMAIN_ZONE_NAME}
----
endif::shared-vpc[]

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc"]
:!shared-vpc:
endif::[]
