modules/installation-gcp-limits.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-account.adoc
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-user-infra.adoc
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-restricted-networks-gcp.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra"]
:template:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc"]
:template:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-restricted-networks-gcp"]
:template:
endif::[]

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="installation-gcp-limits_{context}"]
= GCP account limits

The {product-title} cluster uses a number of Google Cloud Platform (GCP)
components, but the default
link:https://cloud.google.com/docs/quota[Quotas]
do not affect your ability to install a default {product-title} cluster.

A default cluster, which contains three compute and three control plane machines,
uses the following resources. Note that some resources are required only during
the bootstrap process and are removed after the cluster deploys.

.GCP resources used in a default cluster

[cols="2a,2a,2a,2a,2a",options="header"]
|===
|Service
|Component
|Location
|Total resources required
|Resources removed after bootstrap

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-account"]
|Service account |IAM	|Global	|6 |1
|Firewall rules	|Compute	|Global	|11 |1
|Forwarding rules	|Compute	|Global	|2	|0
|In-use global IP addresses	|Compute	|Global	|4	|1
|Health checks	|Compute	|Global	|3	|0
|Images	|Compute	|Global	|1	|0
|Networks	|Compute	|Global	|2	|0
|Static IP addresses	|Compute	|Region	|4	|1
|Routers	|Compute	|Global	|1	|0
|Routes	|Compute	|Global	|2	|0
|Subnetworks	|Compute	|Global	|2	|0
|Target pools	|Compute	|Global	|3	|0
|CPUs	|Compute	|Region	|28	|4
|Persistent disk SSD (GB)	|Compute	|Region	|896	|128
endif::[]

ifdef::template[]
|Service account |IAM	|Global	|6 |1
|Firewall rules	|Networking	|Global	|11 |1
|Forwarding rules	|Compute	|Global	|2	|0
// |In-use IP addresses global	|Networking	|Global	|4	|1
|Health checks	|Compute	|Global	|2	|0
|Images	|Compute	|Global	|1	|0
|Networks	|Networking	|Global	|1	|0
// |Static IP addresses	|Compute	|Region	|4	|1
|Routers	|Networking	|Global	|1	|0
|Routes	|Networking	|Global	|2	|0
|Subnetworks	|Compute	|Global	|2	|0
|Target pools	|Networking	|Global	|2	|0
// |CPUs	|Compute	|Region	|28	|4
// |Persistent Disk SSD (GB)	|Compute	|Region	|896	|128
endif::template[]
|===

[NOTE]
====
If any of the quotas are insufficient during installation, the installation program displays an error that states both which quota was exceeded and the region.
====

Be sure to consider your actual cluster size, planned cluster growth, and any usage from other clusters that are associated with your account. The CPU, static IP addresses, and persistent disk SSD (storage) quotas are the ones that are most likely to be insufficient.

If you plan to deploy your cluster in one of the following regions, you will exceed the maximum storage quota and are likely to exceed the CPU quota limit:

* `asia-east2`
* `asia-northeast2`
* `asia-south1`
* `australia-southeast1`
* `europe-north1`
* `europe-west2`
* `europe-west3`
* `europe-west6`
* `northamerica-northeast1`
* `southamerica-east1`
* `us-west2`

You can increase resource quotas from the link:https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/quotas[GCP console], but you might need to file a support ticket. Be sure to plan your cluster size early so that you can allow time to resolve the support ticket before you install your {product-title} cluster.

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra"]
:!template:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc"]
:!template:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-restricted-networks-gcp"]
:!template:
endif::[]

Commit message:

demo google rebrand with info preserved

modules/installation-gcp-limits.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-account.adoc
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-user-infra.adoc
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-restricted-networks-gcp.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra"]
:template:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc"]
:template:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-restricted-networks-gcp"]
:template:
endif::[]

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="installation-gcp-limits_{context}"]
= {gcp-short} account limits

The {product-title} cluster uses a number of {gcp-first}
components, but the default
link:https://cloud.google.com/docs/quota[Quotas]
do not affect your ability to install a default {product-title} cluster.

A default cluster, which contains three compute and three control plane machines,
uses the following resources. Note that some resources are required only during
the bootstrap process and are removed after the cluster deploys.

.{gcp-short} resources used in a default cluster

[cols="2a,2a,2a,2a,2a",options="header"]
|===
|Service
|Component
|Location
|Total resources required
|Resources removed after bootstrap

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-account"]
|Service account |IAM	|Global	|6 |1
|Firewall rules	|Compute	|Global	|11 |1
|Forwarding rules	|Compute	|Global	|2	|0
|In-use global IP addresses	|Compute	|Global	|4	|1
|Health checks	|Compute	|Global	|3	|0
|Images	|Compute	|Global	|1	|0
|Networks	|Compute	|Global	|2	|0
|Static IP addresses	|Compute	|Region	|4	|1
|Routers	|Compute	|Global	|1	|0
|Routes	|Compute	|Global	|2	|0
|Subnetworks	|Compute	|Global	|2	|0
|Target pools	|Compute	|Global	|3	|0
|CPUs	|Compute	|Region	|28	|4
|Persistent disk SSD (GB)	|Compute	|Region	|896	|128
endif::[]

ifdef::template[]
|Service account |IAM	|Global	|6 |1
|Firewall rules	|Networking	|Global	|11 |1
|Forwarding rules	|Compute	|Global	|2	|0
// |In-use IP addresses global	|Networking	|Global	|4	|1
|Health checks	|Compute	|Global	|2	|0
|Images	|Compute	|Global	|1	|0
|Networks	|Networking	|Global	|1	|0
// |Static IP addresses	|Compute	|Region	|4	|1
|Routers	|Networking	|Global	|1	|0
|Routes	|Networking	|Global	|2	|0
|Subnetworks	|Compute	|Global	|2	|0
|Target pools	|Networking	|Global	|2	|0
// |CPUs	|Compute	|Region	|28	|4
// |Persistent Disk SSD (GB)	|Compute	|Region	|896	|128
endif::template[]
|===

[NOTE]
====
If any of the quotas are insufficient during installation, the installation program displays an error that states both which quota was exceeded and the region.
====

Be sure to consider your actual cluster size, planned cluster growth, and any usage from other clusters that are associated with your account. The CPU, static IP addresses, and persistent disk SSD (storage) quotas are the ones that are most likely to be insufficient.

If you plan to deploy your cluster in one of the following regions, you will exceed the maximum storage quota and are likely to exceed the CPU quota limit:

* `asia-east2`
* `asia-northeast2`
* `asia-south1`
* `australia-southeast1`
* `europe-north1`
* `europe-west2`
* `europe-west3`
* `europe-west6`
* `northamerica-northeast1`
* `southamerica-east1`
* `us-west2`

You can increase resource quotas from the link:https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/quotas[{gcp-short} console], but you might need to file a support ticket. Be sure to plan your cluster size early so that you can allow time to resolve the support ticket before you install your {product-title} cluster.

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra"]
:!template:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc"]
:!template:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-restricted-networks-gcp"]
:!template:
endif::[]
