modules/installation-creating-gcp-firewall-rules-vpc.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-user-infra.adoc
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc"]
:shared-vpc:
endif::[]

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="installation-creating-gcp-firewall-rules-vpc_{context}"]
= Creating firewall rules in GCP

You must create firewall rules in Google Cloud Platform (GCP) for your
{product-title} cluster to use. One way to create these components is
to modify the provided Deployment Manager template.

[NOTE]
====
If you do not use the provided Deployment Manager template to create your GCP
infrastructure, you must review the provided information and manually create
the infrastructure. If your cluster does not initialize correctly, you might
have to contact Red Hat support with your installation logs.
====

.Prerequisites

* Ensure you defined the variables in the _Exporting common variables_ and _Creating load balancers in GCP_ sections.

.Procedure

. Copy the template from the
*Deployment Manager template for firewall rules*
section of this topic and save it as `03_firewall.py` on your computer. This
template describes the security groups that your cluster requires.

. Create a `03_firewall.yaml` resource definition file:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat <<EOF >03_firewall.yaml
imports:
- path: 03_firewall.py

resources:
- name: cluster-firewall
  type: 03_firewall.py
  properties:
    allowed_external_cidr: '0.0.0.0/0' <1>
    infra_id: '${INFRA_ID}' <2>
    cluster_network: '${CLUSTER_NETWORK}' <3>
    network_cidr: '${NETWORK_CIDR}' <4>
EOF
----
<1> `allowed_external_cidr` is the CIDR range that can access the cluster API and SSH to the bootstrap host. For an internal cluster, set this value to `${NETWORK_CIDR}`.
<2> `infra_id` is the `INFRA_ID` infrastructure name from the extraction step.
<3> `cluster_network` is the `selfLink` URL to the cluster network.
<4> `network_cidr` is the CIDR of the VPC network, for example `10.0.0.0/16`.

. Create the deployment by using the `gcloud` CLI:
+
ifdef::shared-vpc[]
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud deployment-manager deployments create ${INFRA_ID}-firewall --config 03_firewall.yaml --project ${HOST_PROJECT} --account ${HOST_PROJECT_ACCOUNT}
----
endif::shared-vpc[]
ifndef::shared-vpc[]
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud deployment-manager deployments create ${INFRA_ID}-firewall --config 03_firewall.yaml
----
endif::shared-vpc[]

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc"]
:!shared-vpc:
endif::[]

Commit message:

demo google rebrand with info preserved

modules/installation-creating-gcp-firewall-rules-vpc.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-user-infra.adoc
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc"]
:shared-vpc:
endif::[]

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="installation-creating-gcp-firewall-rules-vpc_{context}"]
= Creating firewall rules in {gcp-short}

You must create firewall rules in {gcp-first} for your
{product-title} cluster to use. One way to create these components is
to modify the provided Deployment Manager template.

[NOTE]
====
If you do not use the provided Deployment Manager template to create your {gcp-short}
infrastructure, you must review the provided information and manually create
the infrastructure. If your cluster does not initialize correctly, you might
have to contact Red Hat support with your installation logs.
====

.Prerequisites

* Ensure you defined the variables in the _Exporting common variables_ and _Creating load balancers in GCP_ sections.

.Procedure

. Copy the template from the
*Deployment Manager template for firewall rules*
section of this topic and save it as `03_firewall.py` on your computer. This
template describes the security groups that your cluster requires.

. Create a `03_firewall.yaml` resource definition file:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat <<EOF >03_firewall.yaml
imports:
- path: 03_firewall.py

resources:
- name: cluster-firewall
  type: 03_firewall.py
  properties:
    allowed_external_cidr: '0.0.0.0/0' <1>
    infra_id: '${INFRA_ID}' <2>
    cluster_network: '${CLUSTER_NETWORK}' <3>
    network_cidr: '${NETWORK_CIDR}' <4>
EOF
----
<1> `allowed_external_cidr` is the CIDR range that can access the cluster API and SSH to the bootstrap host. For an internal cluster, set this value to `${NETWORK_CIDR}`.
<2> `infra_id` is the `INFRA_ID` infrastructure name from the extraction step.
<3> `cluster_network` is the `selfLink` URL to the cluster network.
<4> `network_cidr` is the CIDR of the VPC network, for example `10.0.0.0/16`.

. Create the deployment by using the `gcloud` CLI:
+
ifdef::shared-vpc[]
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud deployment-manager deployments create ${INFRA_ID}-firewall --config 03_firewall.yaml --project ${HOST_PROJECT} --account ${HOST_PROJECT_ACCOUNT}
----
endif::shared-vpc[]
ifndef::shared-vpc[]
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud deployment-manager deployments create ${INFRA_ID}-firewall --config 03_firewall.yaml
----
endif::shared-vpc[]

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc"]
:!shared-vpc:
endif::[]
