modules/installation-gcp-enabling-api-services.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-account.adoc
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-user-infra.adoc
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-restricted-networks-gcp.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra"]
:template:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc"]
:template:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-restricted-networks"]
:template:
endif::[]

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="installation-gcp-enabling-api-services_{context}"]
= Enabling API services in GCP

Your Google Cloud Platform (GCP) project requires access to several API services
to complete {product-title} installation.

.Prerequisites

* You created a project to host your cluster.

.Procedure

* Enable the following required API services in the project that hosts your
cluster. You may also enable optional API services which are not required for installation. See
link:https://cloud.google.com/service-usage/docs/enable-disable#enabling[Enabling services]
in the GCP documentation.
+
.Required API services
[cols="2a,3a",options="header"]
|===
|API service |Console service name

|Compute Engine API
|`compute.googleapis.com`

|Cloud Resource Manager API
|`cloudresourcemanager.googleapis.com`

|Cloud DNS API
|`dns.googleapis.com`

|IAM Service Account Credentials API
|`iamcredentials.googleapis.com`

|Identity and Access Management (IAM) API
|`iam.googleapis.com`

|Service Usage API
|`serviceusage.googleapis.com`

|===
+
.Optional API services
[cols="2a,3a",options="header"]
|===
|API service |Console service name

ifdef::template[]
|Cloud Deployment Manager V2 API
|`deploymentmanager.googleapis.com`
endif::template[]

|Google Cloud APIs
|`cloudapis.googleapis.com`

|Service Management API
|`servicemanagement.googleapis.com`

|Google Cloud Storage JSON API
|`storage-api.googleapis.com`

|Cloud Storage
|`storage-component.googleapis.com`

|===

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra"]
:!template:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc"]
:!template:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-restricted-networks"]
:!template:
endif::[]

Commit message:

demo google rebrand with info preserved

modules/installation-gcp-enabling-api-services.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-account.adoc
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-user-infra.adoc
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-restricted-networks-gcp.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra"]
:template:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc"]
:template:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-restricted-networks"]
:template:
endif::[]

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="installation-gcp-enabling-api-services_{context}"]
= Enabling API services in {gcp-short}

Your {gcp-first} project requires access to several API services
to complete {product-title} installation.

.Prerequisites

* You created a project to host your cluster.

.Procedure

* Enable the following required API services in the project that hosts your
cluster. You may also enable optional API services which are not required for installation. See
link:https://cloud.google.com/service-usage/docs/enable-disable#enabling[Enabling services]
in the {gcp-short} documentation.
+
.Required API services
[cols="2a,3a",options="header"]
|===
|API service |Console service name

|Compute Engine API
|`compute.googleapis.com`

|Cloud Resource Manager API
|`cloudresourcemanager.googleapis.com`

|Cloud DNS API
|`dns.googleapis.com`

|IAM Service Account Credentials API
|`iamcredentials.googleapis.com`

|Identity and Access Management (IAM) API
|`iam.googleapis.com`

|Service Usage API
|`serviceusage.googleapis.com`

|===
+
.Optional API services
[cols="2a,3a",options="header"]
|===
|API service |Console service name

ifdef::template[]
|Cloud Deployment Manager V2 API
|`deploymentmanager.googleapis.com`
endif::template[]

|Google Cloud APIs
|`cloudapis.googleapis.com`

|Service Management API
|`servicemanagement.googleapis.com`

|Google Cloud Storage JSON API
|`storage-api.googleapis.com`

|Cloud Storage
|`storage-component.googleapis.com`

|===

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra"]
:!template:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc"]
:!template:
endif::[]
ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-restricted-networks"]
:!template:
endif::[]
