modules/installation-creating-gcp-vpc.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-user-infra.adoc
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-restricted-networks-gcp.adoc
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc"]
:shared-vpc:
endif::[]

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="installation-creating-gcp-vpc_{context}"]
= Creating a VPC in GCP

You must create a VPC in Google Cloud Platform (GCP) for your {product-title}
cluster to use. You can customize the VPC to meet your requirements. One way to
create the VPC is to modify the provided Deployment Manager template.

[NOTE]
====
If you do not use the provided Deployment Manager template to create your GCP
infrastructure, you must review the provided information and manually create
the infrastructure. If your cluster does not initialize correctly, you might
have to contact Red Hat support with your installation logs.
====

.Prerequisites

* You have defined the variables in the _Exporting common variables_ section.

.Procedure

. Copy the template from the *Deployment Manager template for the VPC*
section of this topic and save it as `01_vpc.py` on your computer. This template
describes the VPC that your cluster requires.

ifdef::shared-vpc[]
. Export the following variables required by the resource definition:

.. Export the control plane CIDR:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export MASTER_SUBNET_CIDR='10.0.0.0/17'
----

.. Export the compute CIDR:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export WORKER_SUBNET_CIDR='10.0.128.0/17'
----

.. Export the region to deploy the VPC network and cluster to:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export REGION='<region>'
----

. Export the variable for the ID of the project that hosts the shared VPC:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export HOST_PROJECT=<host_project>
----

. Export the variable for the email of the service account that belongs to host project:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export HOST_PROJECT_ACCOUNT=<host_service_account_email>
----
endif::shared-vpc[]

. Create a `01_vpc.yaml` resource definition file:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat <<EOF >01_vpc.yaml
imports:
- path: 01_vpc.py

resources:
- name: cluster-vpc
  type: 01_vpc.py
  properties:
ifndef::shared-vpc[]
    infra_id: '${INFRA_ID}' <1>
endif::shared-vpc[]
ifdef::shared-vpc[]
    infra_id: '<prefix>' <1>
endif::shared-vpc[]
    region: '${REGION}' <2>
    master_subnet_cidr: '${MASTER_SUBNET_CIDR}' <3>
    worker_subnet_cidr: '${WORKER_SUBNET_CIDR}' <4>
EOF
----
ifndef::shared-vpc[]
<1> `infra_id` is the `INFRA_ID` infrastructure name from the extraction step.
endif::shared-vpc[]
ifdef::shared-vpc[]
<1> `infra_id` is the prefix of the network name.
endif::shared-vpc[]
<2> `region` is the region to deploy the cluster into, for example `us-central1`.
<3> `master_subnet_cidr` is the CIDR for the master subnet, for example `10.0.0.0/17`.
<4> `worker_subnet_cidr` is the CIDR for the worker subnet, for example `10.0.128.0/17`.

. Create the deployment by using the `gcloud` CLI:
+
ifndef::shared-vpc[]
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud deployment-manager deployments create ${INFRA_ID}-vpc --config 01_vpc.yaml
----
endif::shared-vpc[]
ifdef::shared-vpc[]
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud deployment-manager deployments create <vpc_deployment_name> --config 01_vpc.yaml --project ${HOST_PROJECT} --account ${HOST_PROJECT_ACCOUNT} <1>
----
<1> For `<vpc_deployment_name>`, specify the name of the VPC to deploy.

. Export the VPC variable that other components require:
.. Export the name of the host project network:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export HOST_PROJECT_NETWORK=<vpc_network>
----
.. Export the name of the host project control plane subnet:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export HOST_PROJECT_CONTROL_SUBNET=<control_plane_subnet>
----
.. Export the name of the host project compute subnet:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export HOST_PROJECT_COMPUTE_SUBNET=<compute_subnet>
----

. Set up the shared VPC. See link:https://cloud.google.com/vpc/docs/provisioning-shared-vpc#setting_up[Setting up Shared VPC] in the GCP documentation.
endif::shared-vpc[]

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc"]
:!shared-vpc:
endif::[]

Commit message:

demo google rebrand with info preserved

modules/installation-creating-gcp-vpc.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-user-infra.adoc
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-restricted-networks-gcp.adoc
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc"]
:shared-vpc:
endif::[]

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="installation-creating-gcp-vpc_{context}"]
= Creating a VPC in {gcp-short}

You must create a VPC in {gcp-first} for your {product-title}
cluster to use. You can customize the VPC to meet your requirements. One way to
create the VPC is to modify the provided Deployment Manager template.

[NOTE]
====
If you do not use the provided Deployment Manager template to create your {gcp-short}
infrastructure, you must review the provided information and manually create
the infrastructure. If your cluster does not initialize correctly, you might
have to contact Red Hat support with your installation logs.
====

.Prerequisites

* You have defined the variables in the _Exporting common variables_ section.

.Procedure

. Copy the template from the *Deployment Manager template for the VPC*
section of this topic and save it as `01_vpc.py` on your computer. This template
describes the VPC that your cluster requires.

ifdef::shared-vpc[]
. Export the following variables required by the resource definition:

.. Export the control plane CIDR:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export MASTER_SUBNET_CIDR='10.0.0.0/17'
----

.. Export the compute CIDR:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export WORKER_SUBNET_CIDR='10.0.128.0/17'
----

.. Export the region to deploy the VPC network and cluster to:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export REGION='<region>'
----

. Export the variable for the ID of the project that hosts the shared VPC:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export HOST_PROJECT=<host_project>
----

. Export the variable for the email of the service account that belongs to host project:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export HOST_PROJECT_ACCOUNT=<host_service_account_email>
----
endif::shared-vpc[]

. Create a `01_vpc.yaml` resource definition file:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat <<EOF >01_vpc.yaml
imports:
- path: 01_vpc.py

resources:
- name: cluster-vpc
  type: 01_vpc.py
  properties:
ifndef::shared-vpc[]
    infra_id: '${INFRA_ID}' <1>
endif::shared-vpc[]
ifdef::shared-vpc[]
    infra_id: '<prefix>' <1>
endif::shared-vpc[]
    region: '${REGION}' <2>
    master_subnet_cidr: '${MASTER_SUBNET_CIDR}' <3>
    worker_subnet_cidr: '${WORKER_SUBNET_CIDR}' <4>
EOF
----
ifndef::shared-vpc[]
<1> `infra_id` is the `INFRA_ID` infrastructure name from the extraction step.
endif::shared-vpc[]
ifdef::shared-vpc[]
<1> `infra_id` is the prefix of the network name.
endif::shared-vpc[]
<2> `region` is the region to deploy the cluster into, for example `us-central1`.
<3> `master_subnet_cidr` is the CIDR for the master subnet, for example `10.0.0.0/17`.
<4> `worker_subnet_cidr` is the CIDR for the worker subnet, for example `10.0.128.0/17`.

. Create the deployment by using the `gcloud` CLI:
+
ifndef::shared-vpc[]
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud deployment-manager deployments create ${INFRA_ID}-vpc --config 01_vpc.yaml
----
endif::shared-vpc[]
ifdef::shared-vpc[]
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud deployment-manager deployments create <vpc_deployment_name> --config 01_vpc.yaml --project ${HOST_PROJECT} --account ${HOST_PROJECT_ACCOUNT} <1>
----
<1> For `<vpc_deployment_name>`, specify the name of the VPC to deploy.

. Export the VPC variable that other components require:
.. Export the name of the host project network:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export HOST_PROJECT_NETWORK=<vpc_network>
----
.. Export the name of the host project control plane subnet:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export HOST_PROJECT_CONTROL_SUBNET=<control_plane_subnet>
----
.. Export the name of the host project compute subnet:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export HOST_PROJECT_COMPUTE_SUBNET=<compute_subnet>
----

. Set up the shared VPC. See link:https://cloud.google.com/vpc/docs/provisioning-shared-vpc#setting_up[Setting up Shared VPC] in the {gcp-short} documentation.
endif::shared-vpc[]

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc"]
:!shared-vpc:
endif::[]
