modules/installation-gcp-project.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-account.adoc
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-user-infra.adoc
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-restricted-networks-gcp.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="installation-gcp-project_{context}"]
= Creating a GCP project

To install {product-title}, you must create a project in your Google Cloud Platform (GCP) account to host the cluster.

.Procedure

* Create a project to host your {product-title} cluster. See
link:https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/creating-managing-projects[Creating and Managing Projects] in the GCP documentation.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Your GCP project must use the Premium Network Service Tier if you are using installer-provisioned infrastructure. The Standard Network Service Tier is not supported for clusters installed using the installation program. The installation program configures internal load balancing for the `api-int.<cluster_name>.<base_domain>` URL; the Premium Tier is required for internal load balancing.
====

Commit message:

demo google rebrand with info preserved

modules/installation-gcp-project.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-account.adoc
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-user-infra.adoc
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-restricted-networks-gcp.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="installation-gcp-project_{context}"]
= Creating a {gcp-short} project

To install {product-title}, you must create a project in your {gcp-first} account to host the cluster.

.Procedure

* Create a project to host your {product-title} cluster. See
link:https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/creating-managing-projects[Creating and Managing Projects] in the {gcp-short} documentation.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Your {gcp-short} project must use the Premium Network Service Tier if you are using installer-provisioned infrastructure. The Standard Network Service Tier is not supported for clusters installed using the installation program. The installation program configures internal load balancing for the `api-int.<cluster_name>.<base_domain>` URL; the Premium Tier is required for internal load balancing.
====
