modules/installation-gcp-install-cli.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-user-infra.adoc
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-restricted-networks-gcp.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="installation-gcp-install-cli_{context}"]
= Installing and configuring CLI tools for GCP

To install {product-title} on Google Cloud Platform (GCP) using user-provisioned
infrastructure, you must install and configure the CLI tools for GCP.

.Prerequisites

* You created a project to host your cluster.
* You created a service account and granted it the required permissions.

.Procedure

. Install the following binaries in `$PATH`:
+
--
* `gcloud`
* `gsutil`
--
+
See link:https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/#install_the_latest_cloud_tools_version_cloudsdk_current_version[Install the latest Cloud SDK version]
in the GCP documentation.

. Authenticate using the `gcloud` tool with your configured service account.
+
See link:https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/authorizing#authorizing_with_a_service_account[Authorizing with a service account] in the GCP documentation.

Commit message:

demo google rebrand with info preserved

modules/installation-gcp-install-cli.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-user-infra.adoc
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-restricted-networks-gcp.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="installation-gcp-install-cli_{context}"]
= Installing and configuring CLI tools for {gcp-short}

To install {product-title} on {gcp-first} using user-provisioned
infrastructure, you must install and configure the CLI tools for {gcp-short}.

.Prerequisites

* You created a project to host your cluster.
* You created a service account and granted it the required permissions.

.Procedure

. Install the following binaries in `$PATH`:
+
--
* `gcloud`
* `gsutil`
--
+
See link:https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/#install_the_latest_cloud_tools_version_cloudsdk_current_version[Install the latest Cloud SDK version]
in the {gcp-short} documentation.

. Authenticate using the `gcloud` tool with your configured service account.
+
See link:https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/authorizing#authorizing_with_a_service_account[Authorizing with a service account] in the {gcp-short} documentation.
