modules/installation-creating-gcp-iam-shared-vpc.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-user-infra.adoc
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc"]
:shared-vpc:
endif::[]

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="installation-creating-gcp-iam-shared-vpc_{context}"]
= Creating IAM roles in GCP

You must create IAM roles in Google Cloud Platform (GCP) for your
{product-title} cluster to use. One way to create these components is
to modify the provided Deployment Manager template.

[NOTE]
====
If you do not use the provided Deployment Manager template to create your GCP
infrastructure, you must review the provided information and manually create
the infrastructure. If your cluster does not initialize correctly, you might
have to contact Red Hat support with your installation logs.
====

.Prerequisites

* You have defined the variables in the _Exporting common variables_ section.

.Procedure

. Copy the template from the
*Deployment Manager template for IAM roles*
section of this topic and save it as `03_iam.py` on your computer. This
template describes the IAM roles that your cluster requires.

. Create a `03_iam.yaml` resource definition file:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat <<EOF >03_iam.yaml
imports:
- path: 03_iam.py
resources:
- name: cluster-iam
  type: 03_iam.py
  properties:
    infra_id: '${INFRA_ID}' <1>
EOF
----
<1> `infra_id` is the `INFRA_ID` infrastructure name from the extraction step.

. Create the deployment by using the `gcloud` CLI:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud deployment-manager deployments create ${INFRA_ID}-iam --config 03_iam.yaml
----

. Export the variable for the master service account:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export MASTER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT=(`gcloud iam service-accounts list --filter "email~^${INFRA_ID}-m@${PROJECT_NAME}." --format json | jq -r '.[0].email'`)
----

. Export the variable for the worker service account:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export WORKER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT=(`gcloud iam service-accounts list --filter "email~^${INFRA_ID}-w@${PROJECT_NAME}." --format json | jq -r '.[0].email'`)
----

ifndef::shared-vpc[]
. Export the variable for the subnet that hosts the compute machines:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export COMPUTE_SUBNET=(`gcloud compute networks subnets describe ${INFRA_ID}-worker-subnet --region=${REGION} --format json | jq -r .selfLink`)
----
endif::shared-vpc[]

ifdef::shared-vpc[]
. Assign the permissions that the installation program requires to the service accounts for the subnets that host the control plane and compute subnets:

.. Grant the `networkViewer` role of the project that hosts your shared VPC to the master service account:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud --account=${HOST_PROJECT_ACCOUNT} --project=${HOST_PROJECT} projects add-iam-policy-binding ${HOST_PROJECT} --member "serviceAccount:${MASTER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}" --role "roles/compute.networkViewer"
----

.. Grant the `networkUser` role to the master service account for the control plane subnet:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud --account=${HOST_PROJECT_ACCOUNT} --project=${HOST_PROJECT} compute networks subnets add-iam-policy-binding "${HOST_PROJECT_CONTROL_SUBNET}" --member "serviceAccount:${MASTER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}" --role "roles/compute.networkUser" --region ${REGION}
----

.. Grant the `networkUser` role to the worker service account for the control plane subnet:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud --account=${HOST_PROJECT_ACCOUNT} --project=${HOST_PROJECT} compute networks subnets add-iam-policy-binding "${HOST_PROJECT_CONTROL_SUBNET}" --member "serviceAccount:${WORKER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}" --role "roles/compute.networkUser" --region ${REGION}
----

.. Grant the `networkUser` role to the master service account for the compute subnet:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud --account=${HOST_PROJECT_ACCOUNT} --project=${HOST_PROJECT} compute networks subnets add-iam-policy-binding "${HOST_PROJECT_COMPUTE_SUBNET}" --member "serviceAccount:${MASTER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}" --role "roles/compute.networkUser" --region ${REGION}
----

.. Grant the `networkUser` role to the worker service account for the compute subnet:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud --account=${HOST_PROJECT_ACCOUNT} --project=${HOST_PROJECT} compute networks subnets add-iam-policy-binding "${HOST_PROJECT_COMPUTE_SUBNET}" --member "serviceAccount:${WORKER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}" --role "roles/compute.networkUser" --region ${REGION}
----
endif::shared-vpc[]

. The templates do not create the policy bindings due to limitations of Deployment
Manager, so you must create them manually:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding ${PROJECT_NAME} --member "serviceAccount:${MASTER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}" --role "roles/compute.instanceAdmin"
$ gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding ${PROJECT_NAME} --member "serviceAccount:${MASTER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}" --role "roles/compute.networkAdmin"
$ gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding ${PROJECT_NAME} --member "serviceAccount:${MASTER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}" --role "roles/compute.securityAdmin"
$ gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding ${PROJECT_NAME} --member "serviceAccount:${MASTER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}" --role "roles/iam.serviceAccountUser"
$ gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding ${PROJECT_NAME} --member "serviceAccount:${MASTER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}" --role "roles/storage.admin"

$ gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding ${PROJECT_NAME} --member "serviceAccount:${WORKER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}" --role "roles/compute.viewer"
$ gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding ${PROJECT_NAME} --member "serviceAccount:${WORKER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}" --role "roles/storage.admin"
----

. Create a service account key and store it locally for later use:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud iam service-accounts keys create service-account-key.json --iam-account=${MASTER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}
----

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc"]
:!shared-vpc:
endif::[]

Commit message:

demo google rebrand with info preserved

modules/installation-creating-gcp-iam-shared-vpc.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-user-infra.adoc
// * installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc.adoc

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc"]
:shared-vpc:
endif::[]

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="installation-creating-gcp-iam-shared-vpc_{context}"]
= Creating IAM roles in {gcp-short}

You must create IAM roles in {gcp-first} for your
{product-title} cluster to use. One way to create these components is
to modify the provided Deployment Manager template.

[NOTE]
====
If you do not use the provided Deployment Manager template to create your {gcp-short}
infrastructure, you must review the provided information and manually create
the infrastructure. If your cluster does not initialize correctly, you might
have to contact Red Hat support with your installation logs.
====

.Prerequisites

* You have defined the variables in the _Exporting common variables_ section.

.Procedure

. Copy the template from the
*Deployment Manager template for IAM roles*
section of this topic and save it as `03_iam.py` on your computer. This
template describes the IAM roles that your cluster requires.

. Create a `03_iam.yaml` resource definition file:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat <<EOF >03_iam.yaml
imports:
- path: 03_iam.py
resources:
- name: cluster-iam
  type: 03_iam.py
  properties:
    infra_id: '${INFRA_ID}' <1>
EOF
----
<1> `infra_id` is the `INFRA_ID` infrastructure name from the extraction step.

. Create the deployment by using the `gcloud` CLI:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud deployment-manager deployments create ${INFRA_ID}-iam --config 03_iam.yaml
----

. Export the variable for the master service account:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export MASTER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT=(`gcloud iam service-accounts list --filter "email~^${INFRA_ID}-m@${PROJECT_NAME}." --format json | jq -r '.[0].email'`)
----

. Export the variable for the worker service account:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export WORKER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT=(`gcloud iam service-accounts list --filter "email~^${INFRA_ID}-w@${PROJECT_NAME}." --format json | jq -r '.[0].email'`)
----

ifndef::shared-vpc[]
. Export the variable for the subnet that hosts the compute machines:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export COMPUTE_SUBNET=(`gcloud compute networks subnets describe ${INFRA_ID}-worker-subnet --region=${REGION} --format json | jq -r .selfLink`)
----
endif::shared-vpc[]

ifdef::shared-vpc[]
. Assign the permissions that the installation program requires to the service accounts for the subnets that host the control plane and compute subnets:

.. Grant the `networkViewer` role of the project that hosts your shared VPC to the master service account:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud --account=${HOST_PROJECT_ACCOUNT} --project=${HOST_PROJECT} projects add-iam-policy-binding ${HOST_PROJECT} --member "serviceAccount:${MASTER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}" --role "roles/compute.networkViewer"
----

.. Grant the `networkUser` role to the master service account for the control plane subnet:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud --account=${HOST_PROJECT_ACCOUNT} --project=${HOST_PROJECT} compute networks subnets add-iam-policy-binding "${HOST_PROJECT_CONTROL_SUBNET}" --member "serviceAccount:${MASTER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}" --role "roles/compute.networkUser" --region ${REGION}
----

.. Grant the `networkUser` role to the worker service account for the control plane subnet:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud --account=${HOST_PROJECT_ACCOUNT} --project=${HOST_PROJECT} compute networks subnets add-iam-policy-binding "${HOST_PROJECT_CONTROL_SUBNET}" --member "serviceAccount:${WORKER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}" --role "roles/compute.networkUser" --region ${REGION}
----

.. Grant the `networkUser` role to the master service account for the compute subnet:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud --account=${HOST_PROJECT_ACCOUNT} --project=${HOST_PROJECT} compute networks subnets add-iam-policy-binding "${HOST_PROJECT_COMPUTE_SUBNET}" --member "serviceAccount:${MASTER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}" --role "roles/compute.networkUser" --region ${REGION}
----

.. Grant the `networkUser` role to the worker service account for the compute subnet:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud --account=${HOST_PROJECT_ACCOUNT} --project=${HOST_PROJECT} compute networks subnets add-iam-policy-binding "${HOST_PROJECT_COMPUTE_SUBNET}" --member "serviceAccount:${WORKER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}" --role "roles/compute.networkUser" --region ${REGION}
----
endif::shared-vpc[]

. The templates do not create the policy bindings due to limitations of Deployment
Manager, so you must create them manually:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding ${PROJECT_NAME} --member "serviceAccount:${MASTER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}" --role "roles/compute.instanceAdmin"
$ gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding ${PROJECT_NAME} --member "serviceAccount:${MASTER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}" --role "roles/compute.networkAdmin"
$ gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding ${PROJECT_NAME} --member "serviceAccount:${MASTER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}" --role "roles/compute.securityAdmin"
$ gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding ${PROJECT_NAME} --member "serviceAccount:${MASTER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}" --role "roles/iam.serviceAccountUser"
$ gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding ${PROJECT_NAME} --member "serviceAccount:${MASTER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}" --role "roles/storage.admin"

$ gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding ${PROJECT_NAME} --member "serviceAccount:${WORKER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}" --role "roles/compute.viewer"
$ gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding ${PROJECT_NAME} --member "serviceAccount:${WORKER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}" --role "roles/storage.admin"
----

. Create a service account key and store it locally for later use:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ gcloud iam service-accounts keys create service-account-key.json --iam-account=${MASTER_SERVICE_ACCOUNT}
----

ifeval::["{context}" == "installing-gcp-user-infra-vpc"]
:!shared-vpc:
endif::[]
