modules/nw-egress-ips-about.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/ovn_kubernetes_network_provider/configuring-egress-ips-ovn.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="nw-egress-ips-about_{context}"]
= Egress IP address architectural design and implementation

By using the {product-title} egress IP address functionality, you can ensure that the traffic from one or more pods in one or more namespaces has a consistent source IP address for services outside the cluster network.

For example, you might have a pod that periodically queries a database that is hosted on a server outside of your cluster. To enforce access requirements for the server, a packet filtering device is configured to allow traffic only from specific IP addresses.
To ensure that you can reliably allow access to the server from only that specific pod, you can configure a specific egress IP address for the pod that makes the requests to the server.

An egress IP address assigned to a namespace is different from an egress router, which is used to send traffic to specific destinations.

ifndef::openshift-rosa[]
In some cluster configurations,
endif::openshift-rosa[]
ifdef::openshift-rosa[]
In {hcp-title} clusters,
endif::openshift-rosa[]
application pods and ingress router pods run on the same node. If you configure an egress IP address for an application project in this scenario, the IP address is not used when you send a request to a route from the application project.

ifndef::openshift-rosa[]
[IMPORTANT]
====
Egress IP addresses must not be configured in any Linux network configuration files, such as `ifcfg-eth0`.
====
endif::openshift-rosa[]

ifndef::openshift-rosa[]
[id="nw-egress-ips-platform-support_{context}"]
== Platform support

The Egress IP address feature that runs on a primary host network is supported on the following platforms:

[cols="1,1",options="header"]
|===
| Platform | Supported

| Bare metal | Yes
| VMware vSphere | Yes
| {rh-openstack-first} | Yes
| Amazon Web Services (AWS) | Yes
| Google Cloud Platform (GCP) | Yes
| Microsoft Azure | Yes
| {ibm-z-name} and {ibm-linuxone-name} | Yes
| {ibm-z-name} and {ibm-linuxone-name} for {op-system-base-full} KVM | Yes
| {ibm-power-name} | Yes
| Nutanix | Yes
|===

// If platform support increases, ensure to update the lead-in sentence to the plural form.
The Egress IP address feature that runs on secondary host networks is supported on the following platform:

[cols="1,1",options="header"]
|===
| Platform | Supported

| Bare metal | Yes
|===
endif::openshift-rosa[]

[IMPORTANT]
====
The assignment of egress IP addresses to control plane nodes with the EgressIP feature is
ifdef::openshift-rosa[]
not supported.
endif::openshift-rosa[]
ifndef::openshift-rosa[]
not supported on a cluster provisioned on Amazon Web Services (AWS). (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2039656[*BZ#2039656*]).
endif::openshift-rosa[]
====

ifndef::openshift-rosa[]
[id="nw-egress-ips-public-cloud-platform-considerations_{context}"]
== Public cloud platform considerations

Typically, public cloud providers place a limit on egress IP addresses. This means that there is a constraint on the absolute number of assignable IP addresses per node for clusters provisioned on public cloud infrastructure. The maximum number of assignable IP addresses per node, or the _IP capacity_, can be described in the following formula:

[source,text]
----
IP capacity = public cloud default capacity - sum(current IP assignments)
----

While the Egress IP addresses capability manages the IP address capacity per node, it is important to plan for this constraint in your deployments. For example, if a public cloud provider limits IP address capacity to 10 IP addresses per node, and you have 8 nodes, the total number of assignable IP addresses is only 80. To achieve a higher IP address capacity, you would need to allocate additional nodes. For example, if you needed 150 assignable IP addresses, you would need to allocate 7 additional nodes.

To confirm the IP capacity and subnets for any node in your public cloud environment, you can enter the `oc get node <node_name> -o yaml` command. The `cloud.network.openshift.io/egress-ipconfig` annotation includes capacity and subnet information for the node.

The annotation value is an array with a single object with fields that provide the following information for the primary network interface:

* `interface`: Specifies the interface ID on AWS and Azure and the interface name on GCP.
* `ifaddr`: Specifies the subnet mask for one or both IP address families.
* `capacity`: Specifies the IP address capacity for the node. On AWS, the IP address capacity is provided per IP address family. On Azure and GCP, the IP address capacity includes both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses.

Automatic attachment and detachment of egress IP addresses for traffic between nodes are available. This allows for traffic from many pods in namespaces to have a consistent source IP address to locations outside of the cluster.

[NOTE]
====
When an {rh-openstack} cluster administrator assigns a floating IP to the reservation port, {product-title} cannot delete the reservation port. The `CloudPrivateIPConfig` object cannot perform delete and move operations until an {rh-openstack} cluster administrator unassigns the floating IP from the reservation port.
====
endif::openshift-rosa[]

The following examples illustrate the annotation from nodes on several public cloud providers. The annotations are indented for readability.

.Example `cloud.network.openshift.io/egress-ipconfig` annotation on AWS
[source,yaml]
----
cloud.network.openshift.io/egress-ipconfig: [
  {
    "interface":"eni-078d267045138e436",
    "ifaddr":{"ipv4":"10.0.128.0/18"},
    "capacity":{"ipv4":14,"ipv6":15}
  }
]
----

ifndef::openshift-rosa[]
.Example `cloud.network.openshift.io/egress-ipconfig` annotation on GCP
[source,yaml]
----
cloud.network.openshift.io/egress-ipconfig: [
  {
    "interface":"nic0",
    "ifaddr":{"ipv4":"10.0.128.0/18"},
    "capacity":{"ip":14}
  }
]
----
endif::openshift-rosa[]

The following sections describe the IP address capacity for supported public cloud environments for use in your capacity calculation.

[id="nw-egress-ips-capacity-aws_{context}"]
ifndef::openshift-rosa[]
=== Amazon Web Services (AWS) IP address capacity limits
endif::openshift-rosa[]
ifdef::openshift-rosa[]
== Amazon Web Services (AWS) IP address capacity limits
endif::openshift-rosa[]

On AWS, constraints on IP address assignments depend on the instance type configured. For more information, see link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using-eni.html#AvailableIpPerENI[IP addresses per network interface per instance type]

ifndef::openshift-rosa[]
[id="nw-egress-ips-capacity-gcp_{context}"]
=== Google Cloud Platform (GCP) IP address capacity limits

On GCP, the networking model implements additional node IP addresses through IP address aliasing, rather than IP address assignments. However, IP address capacity maps directly to IP aliasing capacity.

The following capacity limits exist for IP aliasing assignment:

- Per node, the maximum number of IP aliases, both IPv4 and IPv6, is 100.
- Per VPC, the maximum number of IP aliases is unspecified, but {product-title} scalability testing reveals the maximum to be approximately 15,000.

For more information, see link:https://cloud.google.com/vpc/docs/quota#per_instance[Per instance] quotas and link:https://cloud.google.com/vpc/docs/alias-ip[Alias IP ranges overview].

[id="nw-egress-ips-capacity-azure_{context}"]
=== Microsoft Azure IP address capacity limits

On Azure, the following capacity limits exist for IP address assignment:

- Per NIC, the maximum number of assignable IP addresses, for both IPv4 and IPv6, is 256.
- Per virtual network, the maximum number of assigned IP addresses cannot exceed 65,536.

For more information, see link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/azure-subscription-service-limits?toc=/azure/virtual-network/toc.json#networking-limits[Networking limits].

endif::openshift-rosa[]

[id="nw-egress-ips-node-architecture_{context}"]
== Architectural diagram of an egress IP address configuration

The following diagram depicts an egress IP address configuration. The diagram describes four pods in two different namespaces running on three nodes in a cluster. The nodes are assigned IP addresses from the `192.168.126.0/18` CIDR block on the host network.

// Source: https://github.com/redhataccess/documentation-svg-assets/blob/master/for-web/121_OpenShift/121_OpenShift_engress_IP_Topology_1020.svg
image::nw-egress-ips-diagram.svg[Architectural diagram for the egress IP feature.]

Both Node 1 and Node 3 are labeled with `k8s.ovn.org/egress-assignable: ""` and thus available for the assignment of egress IP addresses.

The dashed lines in the diagram depict the traffic flow from pod1, pod2, and pod3 traveling through the pod network to egress the cluster from Node 1 and Node 3. When an external service receives traffic from any of the pods selected by the example `EgressIP` object, the source IP address is either `192.168.126.10` or `192.168.126.102`. The traffic is balanced roughly equally between these two nodes.

Based on the diagram, the following manifest file defines namespaces:

.Namespace objects
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: namespace1
  labels:
    env: prod
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: namespace2
  labels:
    env: prod
----

Based on the diagram, the following `EgressIP` object describes a configuration that selects all pods in any namespace with the `env` label set to `prod`. The egress IP addresses for the selected pods are `192.168.126.10` and `192.168.126.102`.

.`EgressIP` object
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: k8s.ovn.org/v1
kind: EgressIP
metadata:
  name: egressips-prod
spec:
  egressIPs:
  - 192.168.126.10
  - 192.168.126.102
  namespaceSelector:
    matchLabels:
      env: prod
status:
  items:
  - node: node1
    egressIP: 192.168.126.10
  - node: node3
    egressIP: 192.168.126.102
----

For the configuration in the previous example, {product-title} assigns both egress IP addresses to the available nodes. The `status` field reflects whether and where the egress IP addresses are assigned.

Commit message:

demo google rebrand with info preserved

modules/nw-egress-ips-about.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/ovn_kubernetes_network_provider/configuring-egress-ips-ovn.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="nw-egress-ips-about_{context}"]
= Egress IP address architectural design and implementation

By using the {product-title} egress IP address functionality, you can ensure that the traffic from one or more pods in one or more namespaces has a consistent source IP address for services outside the cluster network.

For example, you might have a pod that periodically queries a database that is hosted on a server outside of your cluster. To enforce access requirements for the server, a packet filtering device is configured to allow traffic only from specific IP addresses.
To ensure that you can reliably allow access to the server from only that specific pod, you can configure a specific egress IP address for the pod that makes the requests to the server.

An egress IP address assigned to a namespace is different from an egress router, which is used to send traffic to specific destinations.

ifndef::openshift-rosa[]
In some cluster configurations,
endif::openshift-rosa[]
ifdef::openshift-rosa[]
In {hcp-title} clusters,
endif::openshift-rosa[]
application pods and ingress router pods run on the same node. If you configure an egress IP address for an application project in this scenario, the IP address is not used when you send a request to a route from the application project.

ifndef::openshift-rosa[]
[IMPORTANT]
====
Egress IP addresses must not be configured in any Linux network configuration files, such as `ifcfg-eth0`.
====
endif::openshift-rosa[]

ifndef::openshift-rosa[]
[id="nw-egress-ips-platform-support_{context}"]
== Platform support

The Egress IP address feature that runs on a primary host network is supported on the following platforms:

[cols="1,1",options="header"]
|===
| Platform | Supported

| Bare metal | Yes
| VMware vSphere | Yes
| {rh-openstack-first} | Yes
| Amazon Web Services (AWS) | Yes
| {gcp-first} | Yes
| Microsoft Azure | Yes
| {ibm-z-name} and {ibm-linuxone-name} | Yes
| {ibm-z-name} and {ibm-linuxone-name} for {op-system-base-full} KVM | Yes
| {ibm-power-name} | Yes
| Nutanix | Yes
|===

// If platform support increases, ensure to update the lead-in sentence to the plural form.
The Egress IP address feature that runs on secondary host networks is supported on the following platform:

[cols="1,1",options="header"]
|===
| Platform | Supported

| Bare metal | Yes
|===
endif::openshift-rosa[]

[IMPORTANT]
====
The assignment of egress IP addresses to control plane nodes with the EgressIP feature is
ifdef::openshift-rosa[]
not supported.
endif::openshift-rosa[]
ifndef::openshift-rosa[]
not supported on a cluster provisioned on Amazon Web Services (AWS). (link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2039656[*BZ#2039656*]).
endif::openshift-rosa[]
====

ifndef::openshift-rosa[]
[id="nw-egress-ips-public-cloud-platform-considerations_{context}"]
== Public cloud platform considerations

Typically, public cloud providers place a limit on egress IP addresses. This means that there is a constraint on the absolute number of assignable IP addresses per node for clusters provisioned on public cloud infrastructure. The maximum number of assignable IP addresses per node, or the _IP capacity_, can be described in the following formula:

[source,text]
----
IP capacity = public cloud default capacity - sum(current IP assignments)
----

While the Egress IP addresses capability manages the IP address capacity per node, it is important to plan for this constraint in your deployments. For example, if a public cloud provider limits IP address capacity to 10 IP addresses per node, and you have 8 nodes, the total number of assignable IP addresses is only 80. To achieve a higher IP address capacity, you would need to allocate additional nodes. For example, if you needed 150 assignable IP addresses, you would need to allocate 7 additional nodes.

To confirm the IP capacity and subnets for any node in your public cloud environment, you can enter the `oc get node <node_name> -o yaml` command. The `cloud.network.openshift.io/egress-ipconfig` annotation includes capacity and subnet information for the node.

The annotation value is an array with a single object with fields that provide the following information for the primary network interface:

* `interface`: Specifies the interface ID on AWS and Azure and the interface name on {gcp-short}.
* `ifaddr`: Specifies the subnet mask for one or both IP address families.
* `capacity`: Specifies the IP address capacity for the node. On AWS, the IP address capacity is provided per IP address family. On Azure and {gcp-short}, the IP address capacity includes both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses.

Automatic attachment and detachment of egress IP addresses for traffic between nodes are available. This allows for traffic from many pods in namespaces to have a consistent source IP address to locations outside of the cluster.

[NOTE]
====
When an {rh-openstack} cluster administrator assigns a floating IP to the reservation port, {product-title} cannot delete the reservation port. The `CloudPrivateIPConfig` object cannot perform delete and move operations until an {rh-openstack} cluster administrator unassigns the floating IP from the reservation port.
====
endif::openshift-rosa[]

The following examples illustrate the annotation from nodes on several public cloud providers. The annotations are indented for readability.

.Example `cloud.network.openshift.io/egress-ipconfig` annotation on AWS
[source,yaml]
----
cloud.network.openshift.io/egress-ipconfig: [
  {
    "interface":"eni-078d267045138e436",
    "ifaddr":{"ipv4":"10.0.128.0/18"},
    "capacity":{"ipv4":14,"ipv6":15}
  }
]
----

ifndef::openshift-rosa[]
.Example `cloud.network.openshift.io/egress-ipconfig` annotation on {gcp-short}
[source,yaml]
----
cloud.network.openshift.io/egress-ipconfig: [
  {
    "interface":"nic0",
    "ifaddr":{"ipv4":"10.0.128.0/18"},
    "capacity":{"ip":14}
  }
]
----
endif::openshift-rosa[]

The following sections describe the IP address capacity for supported public cloud environments for use in your capacity calculation.

[id="nw-egress-ips-capacity-aws_{context}"]
ifndef::openshift-rosa[]
=== Amazon Web Services (AWS) IP address capacity limits
endif::openshift-rosa[]
ifdef::openshift-rosa[]
== Amazon Web Services (AWS) IP address capacity limits
endif::openshift-rosa[]

On AWS, constraints on IP address assignments depend on the instance type configured. For more information, see link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using-eni.html#AvailableIpPerENI[IP addresses per network interface per instance type]

ifndef::openshift-rosa[]
[id="nw-egress-ips-capacity-gcp_{context}"]
=== {gcp-first} IP address capacity limits

On {gcp-short}, the networking model implements additional node IP addresses through IP address aliasing, rather than IP address assignments. However, IP address capacity maps directly to IP aliasing capacity.

The following capacity limits exist for IP aliasing assignment:

- Per node, the maximum number of IP aliases, both IPv4 and IPv6, is 100.
- Per VPC, the maximum number of IP aliases is unspecified, but {product-title} scalability testing reveals the maximum to be approximately 15,000.

For more information, see link:https://cloud.google.com/vpc/docs/quota#per_instance[Per instance] quotas and link:https://cloud.google.com/vpc/docs/alias-ip[Alias IP ranges overview].

[id="nw-egress-ips-capacity-azure_{context}"]
=== Microsoft Azure IP address capacity limits

On Azure, the following capacity limits exist for IP address assignment:

- Per NIC, the maximum number of assignable IP addresses, for both IPv4 and IPv6, is 256.
- Per virtual network, the maximum number of assigned IP addresses cannot exceed 65,536.

For more information, see link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/azure-subscription-service-limits?toc=/azure/virtual-network/toc.json#networking-limits[Networking limits].

endif::openshift-rosa[]

[id="nw-egress-ips-node-architecture_{context}"]
== Architectural diagram of an egress IP address configuration

The following diagram depicts an egress IP address configuration. The diagram describes four pods in two different namespaces running on three nodes in a cluster. The nodes are assigned IP addresses from the `192.168.126.0/18` CIDR block on the host network.

// Source: https://github.com/redhataccess/documentation-svg-assets/blob/master/for-web/121_OpenShift/121_OpenShift_engress_IP_Topology_1020.svg
image::nw-egress-ips-diagram.svg[Architectural diagram for the egress IP feature.]

Both Node 1 and Node 3 are labeled with `k8s.ovn.org/egress-assignable: ""` and thus available for the assignment of egress IP addresses.

The dashed lines in the diagram depict the traffic flow from pod1, pod2, and pod3 traveling through the pod network to egress the cluster from Node 1 and Node 3. When an external service receives traffic from any of the pods selected by the example `EgressIP` object, the source IP address is either `192.168.126.10` or `192.168.126.102`. The traffic is balanced roughly equally between these two nodes.

Based on the diagram, the following manifest file defines namespaces:

.Namespace objects
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: namespace1
  labels:
    env: prod
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: namespace2
  labels:
    env: prod
----

Based on the diagram, the following `EgressIP` object describes a configuration that selects all pods in any namespace with the `env` label set to `prod`. The egress IP addresses for the selected pods are `192.168.126.10` and `192.168.126.102`.

.`EgressIP` object
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: k8s.ovn.org/v1
kind: EgressIP
metadata:
  name: egressips-prod
spec:
  egressIPs:
  - 192.168.126.10
  - 192.168.126.102
  namespaceSelector:
    matchLabels:
      env: prod
status:
  items:
  - node: node1
    egressIP: 192.168.126.10
  - node: node3
    egressIP: 192.168.126.102
----

For the configuration in the previous example, {product-title} assigns both egress IP addresses to the available nodes. The `status` field reflects whether and where the egress IP addresses are assigned.
