modules/persistent-storage-csi-gcp-pd-storage-class-ref.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi-gcp-pd.adoc

[id="persistent-storage-csi-gcp-pd-storage-class-ref_{context}"]
= GCP PD CSI driver storage class parameters

The Google Cloud Platform (GCP) persistent disk (PD) Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver uses the CSI `external-provisioner` sidecar as a controller. This is a separate helper container that is deployed with the CSI driver. The sidecar manages persistent volumes (PVs) by triggering the `CreateVolume` operation.

The GCP PD CSI driver uses the `csi.storage.k8s.io/fstype` parameter key to support dynamic provisioning. The following table describes all the GCP PD CSI storage class parameters that are supported by {product-title}.

.CreateVolume Parameters
[cols="2,3,2,4",options="header"]
|===
|Parameter  |Values  |Default  |Description

|`type` | `pd-ssd`, `pd-standard`, or `pd-balanced` | `pd-standard` | Allows you to choose between standard PVs or solid-state-drive PVs.

The driver does not validate the value, thus all the possible values are accepted.
|`replication-type`| `none` or `regional-pd` | `none` | Allows you to choose between zonal or regional PVs.
|`disk-encryption-kms-key` | Fully qualified resource identifier for the key to use to encrypt new disks. | Empty string | Uses customer-managed encryption keys (CMEK) to encrypt new disks.
|===

Commit message:

demo google rebrand with info preserved

modules/persistent-storage-csi-gcp-pd-storage-class-ref.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * storage/container_storage_interface/persistent-storage-csi-gcp-pd.adoc

[id="persistent-storage-csi-gcp-pd-storage-class-ref_{context}"]
= {gcp-short} PD CSI driver storage class parameters

The {gcp-first} persistent disk (PD) Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver uses the CSI `external-provisioner` sidecar as a controller. This is a separate helper container that is deployed with the CSI driver. The sidecar manages persistent volumes (PVs) by triggering the `CreateVolume` operation.

The {gcp-short} PD CSI driver uses the `csi.storage.k8s.io/fstype` parameter key to support dynamic provisioning. The following table describes all the {gcp-short} PD CSI storage class parameters that are supported by {product-title}.

.CreateVolume Parameters
[cols="2,3,2,4",options="header"]
|===
|Parameter  |Values  |Default  |Description

|`type` | `pd-ssd`, `pd-standard`, or `pd-balanced` | `pd-standard` | Allows you to choose between standard PVs or solid-state-drive PVs.

The driver does not validate the value, thus all the possible values are accepted.
|`replication-type`| `none` or `regional-pd` | `none` | Allows you to choose between zonal or regional PVs.
|`disk-encryption-kms-key` | Fully qualified resource identifier for the key to use to encrypt new disks. | Empty string | Uses customer-managed encryption keys (CMEK) to encrypt new disks.
|===
