modules/service-account-auth-overview.adoc, before:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * osd_install_access_delete_cluster/creating-a-gcp-cluster-with-workload-identity-federation.adoc


:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="service-account-auth-overview_{context}"]
= Service Account authentication overview

The Service Account authentication type uses a private key for authentication purposes. Service accounts use RSA key pairs, which consist of a public and private key, with the private key being the service account key. The public portion of the key pair is stored on Google Cloud, while the private key is kept by the user. The private key allows users to authenticate as a service account and gain access to assets and resources associated with that service account.

Service account keys are a security risk if not managed carefully. Users should routinely rotate their service account keys to reduce the risk of leaked or stolen keys.

[IMPORTANT]
=====
Because of the potential security risk when using the Service Account authentication type, Red Hat recommends using GCP Workload Identity Federation (WIF) as the authentication type for installing and interacting with the OpenShift Dedicated cluster deployed on Google Cloud Platform (GCP) because it provides enhanced security. For more information, see _Creating a cluster on GCP with Workload Identity Federation authentication_ in the _Additional resources_ section.
=====

Commit message:

demo google rebrand with info preserved

modules/service-account-auth-overview.adoc, after:

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * osd_install_access_delete_cluster/creating-a-gcp-cluster-with-workload-identity-federation.adoc


:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="service-account-auth-overview_{context}"]
= Service Account authentication overview

The Service Account authentication type uses a private key for authentication purposes. Service accounts use RSA key pairs, which consist of a public and private key, with the private key being the service account key. The public portion of the key pair is stored on Google Cloud, while the private key is kept by the user. The private key allows users to authenticate as a service account and gain access to assets and resources associated with that service account.

Service account keys are a security risk if not managed carefully. Users should routinely rotate their service account keys to reduce the risk of leaked or stolen keys.

[IMPORTANT]
=====
Because of the potential security risk when using the Service Account authentication type, Red Hat recommends using {gcp-short} Workload Identity Federation (WIF) as the authentication type for installing and interacting with the OpenShift Dedicated cluster deployed on {gcp-first} because it provides enhanced security. For more information, see _Creating a cluster on {gcp-short} with Workload Identity Federation authentication_ in the _Additional resources_ section.
=====
