installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-account.adoc, before:

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="installing-gcp-account"]
= Configuring a GCP project
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: installing-gcp-account

toc::[]

Before you can install {product-title}, you must configure a
Google Cloud Platform (GCP) project to host it.

include::modules/installation-gcp-project.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/installation-gcp-enabling-api-services.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/installation-gcp-dns.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/installation-gcp-limits.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/installation-gcp-service-account.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/installation-gcp-permissions.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/minimum-required-permissions-ipi-gcp.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/minimum-required-permissions-ipi-gcp-xpn.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/minimum-required-permissions-ipi-gcp-provided-sas.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/installation-gcp-regions.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

== Next steps

* Install an {product-title} cluster on GCP. You can
xref:../../installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-customizations.adoc#installing-gcp-customizations[install a customized cluster]
or xref:../../installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-default.adoc#installing-gcp-default[quickly install a cluster]
with default options.

Commit message:

demo google rebrand with info preserved

installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-account.adoc, after:

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="installing-gcp-account"]
= Configuring a {gcp-short} project
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: installing-gcp-account

toc::[]

Before you can install {product-title}, you must configure a
{gcp-first} project to host it.

include::modules/installation-gcp-project.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/installation-gcp-enabling-api-services.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/installation-gcp-dns.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/installation-gcp-limits.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/installation-gcp-service-account.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/installation-gcp-permissions.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/minimum-required-permissions-ipi-gcp.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/minimum-required-permissions-ipi-gcp-xpn.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/minimum-required-permissions-ipi-gcp-provided-sas.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::modules/installation-gcp-regions.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

== Next steps

* Install an {product-title} cluster on {gcp-short}. You can
xref:../../installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-customizations.adoc#installing-gcp-customizations[install a customized cluster]
or xref:../../installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-default.adoc#installing-gcp-default[quickly install a cluster]
with default options.
