post_installation_configuration/configuring-multi-arch-compute-machines/creating-multi-arch-compute-nodes-gcp.adoc, before:

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
:context: creating-multi-arch-compute-nodes-gcp
[id="creating-multi-arch-compute-nodes-gcp"]
= Creating a cluster with multi-architecture compute machines on GCP
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]

toc::[]

To create a Google Cloud Platform (GCP) cluster with multi-architecture compute machines, you must first create a single-architecture GCP installer-provisioned cluster with the multi-architecture installer binary. For more information on AWS installations, see xref:../../installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-customizations.adoc[Installing a cluster on GCP with customizations]. 

You can also migrate your current cluster with single-architecture compute machines to a cluster with multi-architecture compute machines. For more information, see xref:../../updating/updating_a_cluster/migrating-to-multi-payload.adoc#migrating-to-multi-payload[Migrating to a cluster with multi-architecture compute machines].

After creating a multi-architecture cluster, you can add nodes with different architectures to the cluster.

[NOTE]
====
Secure booting is currently not supported on 64-bit ARM machines for GCP
====

include::modules/multi-architecture-verifying-cluster-compatibility.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/multi-architecture-modify-machine-set-gcp.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

.Additional resources

* xref:../../installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-customizations.adoc#installation-gcp-tested-machine-types-arm_installing-gcp-customizations[Tested instance types for GCP on 64-bit ARM infrastructures]

* xref:../../post_installation_configuration/configuring-multi-arch-compute-machines/multiarch-tuning-operator.adoc#multiarch-tuning-operator[Managing workloads on multi-architecture clusters by using the Multiarch Tuning Operator]

Commit message:

demo google rebrand with info preserved

post_installation_configuration/configuring-multi-arch-compute-machines/creating-multi-arch-compute-nodes-gcp.adoc, after:

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
:context: creating-multi-arch-compute-nodes-gcp
[id="creating-multi-arch-compute-nodes-gcp"]
= Creating a cluster with multi-architecture compute machines on {gcp-short}
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]

toc::[]

To create a {gcp-first} cluster with multi-architecture compute machines, you must first create a single-architecture {gcp-short} installer-provisioned cluster with the multi-architecture installer binary. For more information on AWS installations, see xref:../../installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-customizations.adoc[Installing a cluster on {gcp-short} with customizations].

You can also migrate your current cluster with single-architecture compute machines to a cluster with multi-architecture compute machines. For more information, see xref:../../updating/updating_a_cluster/migrating-to-multi-payload.adoc#migrating-to-multi-payload[Migrating to a cluster with multi-architecture compute machines].

After creating a multi-architecture cluster, you can add nodes with different architectures to the cluster.

[NOTE]
====
Secure booting is currently not supported on 64-bit ARM machines for {gcp-short}
====

include::modules/multi-architecture-verifying-cluster-compatibility.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/multi-architecture-modify-machine-set-gcp.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

.Additional resources

* xref:../../installing/installing_gcp/installing-gcp-customizations.adoc#installation-gcp-tested-machine-types-arm_installing-gcp-customizations[Tested instance types for {gcp-short} on 64-bit ARM infrastructures]

* xref:../../post_installation_configuration/configuring-multi-arch-compute-machines/multiarch-tuning-operator.adoc#multiarch-tuning-operator[Managing workloads on multi-architecture clusters by using the Multiarch Tuning Operator]
