authentication/managing_cloud_provider_credentials/cco-mode-mint.adoc, before:

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="cco-mode-mint"]
= The Cloud Credential Operator in mint mode
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: cco-mode-mint

toc::[]

Mint mode is the default Cloud Credential Operator (CCO) credentials mode for {product-title} on platforms that support it. Mint mode supports Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Google Cloud Platform (GCP) clusters.

[id="mint-mode-about"]
== Mint mode credentials management

For clusters that use the CCO in mint mode, the administrator-level credential is stored in the `kube-system` namespace. 
The CCO uses the `admin` credential to process the `CredentialsRequest` objects in the cluster and create users for components with limited permissions.

With mint mode, each cluster component has only the specific permissions it requires.
Cloud credential reconciliation is automatic and continuous so that components can perform actions that require additional credentials or permissions.

For example, a minor version cluster update (such as updating from {product-title} {ocp-nminus1} to {product-version}) might include an updated `CredentialsRequest` resource for a cluster component.
The CCO, operating in mint mode, uses the `admin` credential to process the `CredentialsRequest` resource and create users with limited permissions to satisfy the updated authentication requirements.

[NOTE]
====
By default, mint mode requires storing the `admin` credential in the cluster `kube-system` namespace. If this approach does not meet the security requirements of your organization, you can xref:../../post_installation_configuration/changing-cloud-credentials-configuration.adoc#manually-removing-cloud-creds_changing-cloud-credentials-configuration[remove the credential after installing the cluster].
====

[id="mint-mode-permissions"]
=== Mint mode permissions requirements
When using the CCO in mint mode, ensure that the credential you provide meets the requirements of the cloud on which you are running or installing {product-title}. If the provided credentials are not sufficient for mint mode, the CCO cannot create an IAM user.

The credential you provide for mint mode in Amazon Web Services (AWS) must have the following permissions:

.Required AWS permissions
[%collapsible]
====
* `iam:CreateAccessKey`
* `iam:CreateUser`
* `iam:DeleteAccessKey`
* `iam:DeleteUser`
* `iam:DeleteUserPolicy`
* `iam:GetUser`
* `iam:GetUserPolicy`
* `iam:ListAccessKeys`
* `iam:PutUserPolicy`
* `iam:TagUser`
* `iam:SimulatePrincipalPolicy`
====

The credential you provide for mint mode in Google Cloud Platform (GCP) must have the following permissions:

.Required GCP permissions
[%collapsible]
====
* `resourcemanager.projects.get`
* `serviceusage.services.list`
* `iam.serviceAccountKeys.create`
* `iam.serviceAccountKeys.delete`
* `iam.serviceAccountKeys.list`
* `iam.serviceAccounts.create`
* `iam.serviceAccounts.delete`
* `iam.serviceAccounts.get`
* `iam.roles.create`
* `iam.roles.get`
* `iam.roles.list`
* `iam.roles.undelete`
* `iam.roles.update`
* `resourcemanager.projects.getIamPolicy`
* `resourcemanager.projects.setIamPolicy`
====

//Admin credentials root secret format
include::modules/admin-credentials-root-secret-formats.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

//Rotating cloud provider credentials manually
include::modules/manually-rotating-cloud-creds.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[role="_additional-resources"]
== Additional resources
* xref:../../post_installation_configuration/changing-cloud-credentials-configuration.adoc#manually-removing-cloud-creds_changing-cloud-credentials-configuration[Removing cloud provider credentials]

Commit message:

demo google rebrand with info preserved

authentication/managing_cloud_provider_credentials/cco-mode-mint.adoc, after:

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="cco-mode-mint"]
= The Cloud Credential Operator in mint mode
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: cco-mode-mint

toc::[]

Mint mode is the default Cloud Credential Operator (CCO) credentials mode for {product-title} on platforms that support it. Mint mode supports Amazon Web Services (AWS) and {gcp-first} clusters.

[id="mint-mode-about"]
== Mint mode credentials management

For clusters that use the CCO in mint mode, the administrator-level credential is stored in the `kube-system` namespace.
The CCO uses the `admin` credential to process the `CredentialsRequest` objects in the cluster and create users for components with limited permissions.

With mint mode, each cluster component has only the specific permissions it requires.
Cloud credential reconciliation is automatic and continuous so that components can perform actions that require additional credentials or permissions.

For example, a minor version cluster update (such as updating from {product-title} {ocp-nminus1} to {product-version}) might include an updated `CredentialsRequest` resource for a cluster component.
The CCO, operating in mint mode, uses the `admin` credential to process the `CredentialsRequest` resource and create users with limited permissions to satisfy the updated authentication requirements.

[NOTE]
====
By default, mint mode requires storing the `admin` credential in the cluster `kube-system` namespace. If this approach does not meet the security requirements of your organization, you can xref:../../post_installation_configuration/changing-cloud-credentials-configuration.adoc#manually-removing-cloud-creds_changing-cloud-credentials-configuration[remove the credential after installing the cluster].
====

[id="mint-mode-permissions"]
=== Mint mode permissions requirements
When using the CCO in mint mode, ensure that the credential you provide meets the requirements of the cloud on which you are running or installing {product-title}. If the provided credentials are not sufficient for mint mode, the CCO cannot create an IAM user.

The credential you provide for mint mode in Amazon Web Services (AWS) must have the following permissions:

.Required AWS permissions
[%collapsible]
====
* `iam:CreateAccessKey`
* `iam:CreateUser`
* `iam:DeleteAccessKey`
* `iam:DeleteUser`
* `iam:DeleteUserPolicy`
* `iam:GetUser`
* `iam:GetUserPolicy`
* `iam:ListAccessKeys`
* `iam:PutUserPolicy`
* `iam:TagUser`
* `iam:SimulatePrincipalPolicy`
====

The credential you provide for mint mode in {gcp-first} must have the following permissions:

.Required {gcp-short} permissions
[%collapsible]
====
* `resourcemanager.projects.get`
* `serviceusage.services.list`
* `iam.serviceAccountKeys.create`
* `iam.serviceAccountKeys.delete`
* `iam.serviceAccountKeys.list`
* `iam.serviceAccounts.create`
* `iam.serviceAccounts.delete`
* `iam.serviceAccounts.get`
* `iam.roles.create`
* `iam.roles.get`
* `iam.roles.list`
* `iam.roles.undelete`
* `iam.roles.update`
* `resourcemanager.projects.getIamPolicy`
* `resourcemanager.projects.setIamPolicy`
====

//Admin credentials root secret format
include::modules/admin-credentials-root-secret-formats.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

//Rotating cloud provider credentials manually
include::modules/manually-rotating-cloud-creds.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[role="_additional-resources"]
== Additional resources
* xref:../../post_installation_configuration/changing-cloud-credentials-configuration.adoc#manually-removing-cloud-creds_changing-cloud-credentials-configuration[Removing cloud provider credentials]
