backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/installing/installing-oadp-gcp.adoc, before:

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="installing-oadp-gcp"]
= Configuring the OpenShift API for Data Protection with Google Cloud Platform
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: installing-oadp-gcp
:installing-oadp-gcp:
:credentials: cloud-credentials-gcp
:provider: gcp

toc::[]

[role="_abstract"]
You install the OpenShift API for Data Protection (OADP) with Google Cloud Platform (GCP) by installing the OADP Operator. The Operator installs link:https://{velero-domain}/docs/v{velero-version}/[Velero {velero-version}].

include::snippets/oadp-mtc-operator.adoc[]

You configure GCP for Velero, create a default `Secret`, and then install the Data Protection Application. For more details, see xref:../../../backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/installing/oadp-installing-operator.adoc#oadp-installing-operator-doc[Installing the OADP Operator].

To install the OADP Operator in a restricted network environment, you must first disable the default software catalog sources and mirror the Operator catalog. See xref:../../../disconnected/using-olm.adoc#olm-restricted-networks[Using Operator Lifecycle Manager in disconnected environments] for details.

//include::modules/oadp-installing-operator.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/migration-configuring-gcp.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/oadp-about-backup-snapshot-locations-secrets.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/oadp-creating-default-secret.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
include::modules/oadp-secrets-for-different-credentials.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[id="configuring-dpa-gcp"]
== Configuring the Data Protection Application

You can configure the Data Protection Application by setting Velero resource allocations or enabling self-signed CA certificates.

include::modules/oadp-setting-resource-limits-and-requests.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::snippets/oadp-nodeselector-snippet.adoc[]

For more details, see xref:../../../backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/installing/installing-oadp-gcp.adoc#oadp-configuring-node-agents_installing-oadp-gcp[Configuring node agents and node labels].

include::modules/oadp-self-signed-certificate.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
include::modules/oadp-using-ca-certificates-with-velero-command.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

// include::modules/oadp-installing-dpa-1-2-and-earlier.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/oadp-gcp-wif-cloud-authentication.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/oadp-installing-dpa-1-3.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/oadp-configuring-client-burst-qps.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/oadp-configuring-node-agents.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/oadp-configuring-node-agent-load-affinity.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/oadp-node-agent-load-affinity-guidelines.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/oadp-configuring-node-agent-load-concurrency.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/oadp-configuring-node-agent-non-root.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/oadp-configuring-repository-maintenance.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/oadp-configuring-velero-load-affinity.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/oadp-configuring-imagepullpolicy.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/oadp-enabling-csi-dpa.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
include::modules/oadp-about-disable-node-agent-dpa.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources

* xref:../../../backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/installing/installing-oadp-kubevirt.adoc#oadp-installing-dpa_installing-oadp-kubevirt[Installing the Data Protection Application with the `kubevirt` and `openshift` plugins]
* xref:../../../nodes/jobs/nodes-nodes-jobs.adoc#nodes-nodes-jobs[Running tasks in pods using jobs].

* xref:../../../backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/installing/configuring-oadp-multiple-bsl.adoc#configuring-oadp-multiple-bsl[Configuring the {oadp-first} with multiple backup storage locations]

:installing-oadp-gcp!:

Commit message:

demo google rebrand with info preserved

backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/installing/installing-oadp-gcp.adoc, after:

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="installing-oadp-gcp"]
= Configuring the OpenShift API for Data Protection with {gcp-full}
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: installing-oadp-gcp
:installing-oadp-gcp:
:credentials: cloud-credentials-gcp
:provider: gcp

toc::[]

[role="_abstract"]
You install the OpenShift API for Data Protection (OADP) with {gcp-first} by installing the OADP Operator. The Operator installs link:https://{velero-domain}/docs/v{velero-version}/[Velero {velero-version}].

include::snippets/oadp-mtc-operator.adoc[]

You configure {gcp-short} for Velero, create a default `Secret`, and then install the Data Protection Application. For more details, see xref:../../../backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/installing/oadp-installing-operator.adoc#oadp-installing-operator-doc[Installing the OADP Operator].

To install the OADP Operator in a restricted network environment, you must first disable the default software catalog sources and mirror the Operator catalog. See xref:../../../disconnected/using-olm.adoc#olm-restricted-networks[Using Operator Lifecycle Manager in disconnected environments] for details.

//include::modules/oadp-installing-operator.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/migration-configuring-gcp.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/oadp-about-backup-snapshot-locations-secrets.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/oadp-creating-default-secret.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
include::modules/oadp-secrets-for-different-credentials.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[id="configuring-dpa-gcp"]
== Configuring the Data Protection Application

You can configure the Data Protection Application by setting Velero resource allocations or enabling self-signed CA certificates.

include::modules/oadp-setting-resource-limits-and-requests.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

include::snippets/oadp-nodeselector-snippet.adoc[]

For more details, see xref:../../../backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/installing/installing-oadp-gcp.adoc#oadp-configuring-node-agents_installing-oadp-gcp[Configuring node agents and node labels].

include::modules/oadp-self-signed-certificate.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
include::modules/oadp-using-ca-certificates-with-velero-command.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

// include::modules/oadp-installing-dpa-1-2-and-earlier.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/oadp-gcp-wif-cloud-authentication.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/oadp-installing-dpa-1-3.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/oadp-configuring-client-burst-qps.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/oadp-configuring-node-agents.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/oadp-configuring-node-agent-load-affinity.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/oadp-node-agent-load-affinity-guidelines.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/oadp-configuring-node-agent-load-concurrency.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/oadp-configuring-node-agent-non-root.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/oadp-configuring-repository-maintenance.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/oadp-configuring-velero-load-affinity.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/oadp-configuring-imagepullpolicy.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/oadp-enabling-csi-dpa.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
include::modules/oadp-about-disable-node-agent-dpa.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources

* xref:../../../backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/installing/installing-oadp-kubevirt.adoc#oadp-installing-dpa_installing-oadp-kubevirt[Installing the Data Protection Application with the `kubevirt` and `openshift` plugins]
* xref:../../../nodes/jobs/nodes-nodes-jobs.adoc#nodes-nodes-jobs[Running tasks in pods using jobs].

* xref:../../../backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/installing/configuring-oadp-multiple-bsl.adoc#configuring-oadp-multiple-bsl[Configuring the {oadp-first} with multiple backup storage locations]

:installing-oadp-gcp!:
